This folder has MATHEMATICA scripts to:
  1. simulate the effect of PF-670462, the CK1 inhibitor, and light on the circadian clock of diurnal non-human primates (NHPs):
The script PF-670462_NHP_model.nb includes the systems chronopharmacology model for NHPs (Fig 2A; Kim et al, XXX). This NHP model was developed by modifying our previous model (Kim et al, CPT:PSP, 2013), which successfully simulates the intracellular dynamics of PF-670462 and its effect in mice. Specifically, the pharmacokinetic parameters were newly estimated to reflect the different PF-670462 exposure and its effect between NHPs and mice. Furthermore, the light module of the model is modified by incorporating the gating and adaptation for light, which reduces photosensitivity of the circadian clock depending on the circadian time and light duration, respectively. The NHP model consists of 274 coupled ordinary differential equations with 273 variables and 92 parameters. Each ordinary differential equations describes the reactions among core clock molecules (e.g. transcription, translation and binding) and the kinetics and dynamics of PF-670462. For a more detailed model description, please see Materials and Methods in Kim et al, XXX.
2. simulate the effect of PF-670462 on the circadian clock of advanced sleep phase disorder (ASPD) patients who have 4 h more advanced circadian phase than the healthy people. 
The script ASPD_models.nb includes the ASPD models (Fig 4A; Kim et al, XXX), which simulate 4 h more advanced phase than the NHP model. To develop the ASPD models, we identified the parameter of which modification leads to a short free-running period and thus 4 h advanced phase than the original NHP model. Furthermore, we advanced the phase of gating by 4 h to reflect the advanced circadian phase of APSD patients. Please see Materials and Methods in Kim et al, XXX for details.
3. estimate the parameters describing the shape of gating and adaptation (Fig EV1F and H) using simulated annealing method (Gonzalez et al, 2007) and post filtering.
The script parameter_estimation_simulated_annealing.nb includes parameter estimation code using simulating annealing method. Via this code, the 911 parameter sets of gating and adaptation for light were estimated with which the model accurately simulates the phase delay of NHPs induced by the 3-day LD dosing at ZT11 and the magnitude of human PRC to a 6.7 h light pulse (Fig EV2A; Kim et al, XXX). Amon these 911 parameter sets, 10 parameter sets were filtered in by the post filtering, which is included in the script parameter_estimation_post_filtering.nb. The final 10 parameters of gating and adaptation for light with which the model accurately simulates the type 1 PRC to a 12 h light pulse and human RPC to a 6.7 h light pulse and to 3-cycle 5 h light pulses (Fig EV2B-E; Kim et al, XXX). For more details, please see Materials and Methods and Fig EV2 I Kim et al, XXX. 

References
1. Kim DW, Chang C, Chen X, Doran A, Gaudreault F, Wager T, DeMarco GJ, Kim JK, Systems approach reveals photosensitivity and PER2 level as determinants of clock-modulator efficacy (Under review for Mol Syst Biol)
2. Kim JK, Forger DB, Marconi M, Wood D, Doran A, Wager T, Chang C, Walton KM (2013) Modeling and validating chronic pharmacological manipulation of circadian rhythms. CPT PSP 2: e57
3. Gonzalez OR, Kuper C, Jung K, Naval PC, Mendoza E (2007) Parameter estimation using Simulated Annealing for S-system models of biochemical networks. Bioinformatics 23: 480-486

